# Module 8: Planning and deploying Skype for Business Online
# Lab: Configuring Skype for Business Online
  
### Scenario 
  
As part of an Office 365 implementation, A. Datum Corporation wants to use Skype for Business Online to provide IM and online conferencing. You need to configure the Skype for Business Online service settings and the user settings to meet A. Datum's requirements.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
  - Configure Skype for Business Online organization settings.
  - Configure Skype for Business Online user settings.
  - Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347B-LON-DC1**,  **20347B-LON-DS1**,  **20347B-LON-CL1**,  **20347B-LON-CL3,** **and** **20347B-LON-CL4**

In all the tasks:
  - Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.
  - Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL3
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL4
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Ada** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online organization settings
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum needs to ensure that internal users can communicate with some external users, but the company also wants the option to block communication with some specified domains. A. Datum also wants to customize the default meeting page to provide company-specific information. You need to configure the required settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
  1. Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization
  2. Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell
  3. Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online
  4. Configure the meeting invitation settings
  5. Validate the meeting invitation settings


#### Task 1: Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization

1. On LON-CL1, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and press Enter.

3. At the login page, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

4. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on menu on the left, in  **Admin centers**, select  **Teams**.

6. In the **Microsoft Teams admin center**, select **Legacy portal**.

7. Select **online meetings** and then select **broadcast meetings**.

8. Under **Meeting Settings and Access Policies**, verify that the following settings are selected, and select **Save**:
    - **Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast**
    - **Allow organizers to schedule anonymous meetings**
    - **Allow broadcast meetings to be recorded**


#### Task 2: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell

1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, select **Download**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Run**.

3. Select  **I agree to the license terms and conditions**, and then select  **Install**.

4. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5. Once the installation is complete, select **Restart** and wait for LON-CL1 to restart.

6. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

7. Close the Skype for Business dialog if it opens.

8. Close the Microsoft Edge window if it open.


#### Task 3: Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $cred = Get-Credential
    ```

5. In the  **credentials** dialog box, enter the user name **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $cred
    ```

7. Type  **Y** and press Enter.

8. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Import-PSSession $SfBSession
    ```

9. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $True
    ```

    > Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

10. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $False
    ```

11. To verify the privacy notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
    ```

    You should see the following output:
      - Identity:  **Global**
      - EnablePrivacyMode:  **True**
      - AutoInitiateContacts:  **True**
      - PublishLocationDataDefault:  **True**
      - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault:  **True**

12. To verify the push notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
    ```

13. To allow users to communicate with public Skype users, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $True
    ```

14. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $True
    ```

15. To enable communication with all federated partners except for litware.com, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

    ```
    $AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
    ```

    ```
    $BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
    ```

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
    ```

    ```
    Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
    ```

16. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and press Enter.

17. At the login page, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

18. To open the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

19. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on menu on the left, in  **Admin centers**, select  **Teams**.

20. In the **Microsoft Teams admin center**, select **Legacy portal**.

21. Select  **organization**.

22. On the  **general** page, under **presence privacy mode**, verify that **Display presence information only to a user's contacts** is selected.

23. Under mobile phone notifications, verify that  **Apple Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then select **external communications**.

24. Under external access, verify that  **On except for blocked domains** is selected.

25. Verify that under blocked or allowed domains,  **litware.com** is listed.


#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the legacy Skype for Business admin center, select  **online meetings** and then select **meeting invitation**.

2. In the  **Help URL** text box, type **http://help.adatum.com**.

3. In the  **Footer text** text box, type **Sample legal disclaimer**. Select  **save**.

4. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CsMeetingConfiguration
    ```

5. Verify that the  **Help URL** and **CustomFooterText** display the correct information.

6. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

    ```
    Remove-PSSession $SfBSession
    ```


#### Task 5: Validate the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, select  **Start**, type **Skype**, and then select **Skype for Business**.

2. In the Skype for Business window, select  **Change**. In the  **Sign-in address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **OK**.

3. Enter the password you created in Module 1, select **Sign In**, then select  **Yes**.

4. Select **Start**, type **Outlook**, and then open Microsoft Outlook.

5. On the ribbon, select  **New Items**, select  **Meeting**, and then select  **Skype Meeting**.

6. In the  **To** text box, type **Abbi**. 

7. Create a meeting request for some time tomorrow using a subject of  **Test Meeting**.

8. Send the meeting request.

9. Open the calendar, and then double-click the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains the custom footer text and that the help link references http://help.adatum.com.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online service settings. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online user settings
  
### Scenario
  
You need to configure different Skype for Business Online user settings based on the department of which the user is a member. You will use Windows PowerShell to configure the settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
  - Configure Skype for Business user settings




#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, navigate to the Microsoft 365 admin center.

2. On the menu to the left, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**. Select  **Christie Thomas**, and then select  **Edit** in the Product licenses section. Next to **Office 365 E5**, turn on the feature.

3. Turn off  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**,  **Phone System** and **Audio Conferencing**. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, on menu on the left, in  **Admin centers**, select  **Teams**.

5. In the **Microsoft Teams admin center**, select **Legacy portal**.

6. On the menu to the left, select  **Users**.

7. Verify that Christie Thomas is not listed as a Skype for Business user. You may need to refresh the window.

8. Select  **Ada** **Russell**, and then select  **Edit** (the pencil in the right panel).

9. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, clear **Record conversations and meetings**.

10. On the menu to the left, select  **external communications**, clear  **External Skype users**, and then select  **save**.

11. Select the  **back** icon, select **Francisco Chaves**, and then select  **Edit**.

12. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, select **Audio only** from the drop-down list box. Select **save**.

13. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online user settings and validated Skype for Business Online functionality.


## Exercise 3: Configuring a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum is interested in exploring the option of hosting large company meetings and external meetings on Skype for Business. You need to configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
  1. Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  

#### Task 1: Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
1. On LON-CL1, open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge browser.

2. Connect to  **https://broadcast.skype.com**, and then, if needed, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, select  **New Meeting**.

4. In the Meeting details window, fill in the following information:
    - Meeting title:  **Test broadcast meeting**
    - Meeting time:  **Today's date**
    - Start time:  **Within the next 15 minutes**
    - Duration:  **1 hour**
    - Members:  **Beth Burke**
    - Access:  **Invitation only**
    - Attendees:  **Ada Russell**

5. Scroll back to the top of the window, and then select  **Create**.

6. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, select  **Create Outlook invitation**,  **Save**, and then select  **Open**.

7. If the  **How do you want to open this file**? window appears, ensure that  **Outlook** is selected, and select **OK**.

8. In the Test broadcast meeting - Appointment window, select **Scheduling Assistant**.

9. Under **All Attendees** enter **Ada Russell** and select **Send**.



## 
  
**Question** 
How will you change the Windows PowerShell steps that you ran in the lab if you want to block all communication with external domains except for litware.com?

**Question** 
Do you think that your organization will use Skype Meeting Broadcast?



©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  